---
title: "Effective connectivity during autobiographical memory search"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-06-15-paper-1
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-06-15
venue: 'Brain and Behavior'
---

<b>By <a href="https://eijinawa.github.io">N. E. Nawa</a> and H. Ando</b>

<b>Paper URL</b>: <a
href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32538553/">https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32538553/</a>

<b>Short summary:</b> We used dynamic causal modeling (DCM) to examine
effective connectivity during cued autobiographical memory (AM) search
in a left-hemispheric network consisting of six major regions within
the large network of brain regions recruited during memory retrieval
processes. Functional MRI data were acquired while participants were
shown verbal cues describing common life events and requested to
search for a personal memory associated with the cue. We examined
directed couplings between the ventromedial (vmPFC), dorsomedial
(dmPFC), and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices (dlPFC), hippocampus,
angular gyrus, and the posterior midline cortex (RSC/PCC/Prec).

Results showed that during AM search, the vmPFC, dlPFC, and
RSC/PCC/Prec acted as primary drivers of activity in the rest of the
network. Moreover, when AM search completed successfully (Hits), the
effective connectivity of the hippocampus on the vmPFC and angular
gyrus was up-modulated. Likewise, there was an increase in the
influence of the RSC/PCC/Prec in the activity of the dlPFC and
dmPFC. Further analysis indicated that the modulation observed during
Hits is primarily a distributed phenomenon that relies on the
interplay between different brain regions.

These results suggest that prefrontal and posterior midline cortical
regions together with the dlPFC largely coordinate the processes
underlying AM search, setting up the conditions on which the angular
gyrus and the hippocampus may act upon when the outcome of the search
is successful.

[Download paper here](http://eijinawa.github.io/files/paper-2020-06-15.pdf)

