---
title: "Enhanced Academic Motivation in University Students Following a Two-week Online Gratitude Journal Intervention"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-04-01-paper-1
excerpt: ''
venue: 'Under review'
---

<b>By <a href="https://eijinawa.github.io">N. E. Nawa</a> and N. Yamagishi</b>

<b>Short summary:</b> We examined the effects yielded by a two-week
online gratitude journal intervention on the academic motivation of
university students. Eighty-four students were randomly assigned to
either an active manipulation group (gratitude group) or a neutral
control group. In the first 6 days of each week, participants in the
gratitude group were asked to log in the online system once a day and
list up to five things they had felt grateful for. They were also
requested to evaluate various aspects of their daily
lives. Participants in the control group were only requested to
perform the daily self-evaluations.

<br>Academic motivation was assessed
using the Academic Motivation Scale (AMS), which conceptualizes
motivation in academic settings as being composed by three different
components, i.e., intrinsic motivation, extrinsic motivation and
amotivation, the latter being associated with the perceived lack of
contingency between actions and outcomes. Responses were collected 5
times: before group assignment (baseline), one week after the start of
the intervention, immediately after the end of the intervention, and
at two follow-ups, 1 and 3 months after intervention completion.

<br>Analysis using a self-determination index derived from the AMS
components showed that participants who regularly engaged with the
gratitude journal task displayed significant enhancements in academic
motivation. Additional analysis revealed that the enhancements were
driven by decreases in the levels of amotivation. Furthermore,
follow-up data showed that there were no signs that such enhancements
had receded 3 months after the end of the intervention. Improvements
in academic motivation were not observed among participants in the
control group. The current results provide evidence that gratitude
interventions can positively impact the academic motivation of
university students.

[Download draft here](http://eijinawa.github.io/files/paper-2021-04-01.pdf)<br>
[Download Fig1 here](http://eijinawa.github.io/files/paper-2021_FIG_1.tiff)<br>
[Download Fig2 here](http://eijinawa.github.io/files/paper-2021_FIG_2.tiff)<br>
[Download Fig3 here](http://eijinawa.github.io/files/paper-2021_FIG_3.tiff)<br>

