---
title: "Gratitude, self-esteem, and optimism distinctively impact the subjective and psychological well-being of Japanese individuals"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-04-27-paper-1
excerpt: ''
venue: 'PsyArXiv'
---

<b>By <a href="https://eijinawa.github.io">N. E. Nawa</a> and <a href="http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/~yamagisi/index-e.html">N. Yamagishi</a></b>

<b>Summary:</b> There is mounting evidence suggesting that the
effectiveness of positive psychological interventions can be
influenced by a variety of factors, including one’s cultural
context. Identifying target variables that can effectively serve to
improve individual well-being under these boundary conditions is a
crucial step when developing viable interventions. To this end, we
examined how gratitude disposition, self-esteem, and optimism relate
to the subjective (SWB) and psychological well-being (PWB) of Japanese
individuals. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that while
self-esteem was predominantly more strongly associated with SWB
compared to gratitude disposition, the latter was more strongly
associated with the PWB dimensions, particularly personal growth,
positive relations with others and purpose in life. These results were
largely corroborated by a second expanded dataset. In addition, we
used experience sampling over a four-week period to examine how
momentary affect ratings related to overall daily evaluations. We
found that both gratitude disposition and self-esteem moderated the
association between momentary positive affect and “good day”
evaluations but in opposite ways; increasing gratitude disposition
strengthened the association, while increasing self esteem weakened
it. All in all, the current results suggest that while gratitude,
self-esteem, and optimism influence individual well-being as a whole,
they each likely play distinct roles as enablers of SWB and PWB in the
examined cohort.

[Download here](https://osf.io/preprints/psyarxiv/rcp6w)

