---
title: "Duration of mood effects following a Japanese version of the mood induction task"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-01-05-paper-1
excerpt: ''
venue: 'PLoS ONE'
---

<b>By Y. Monno, <a href="https://eijinawa.github.io">N. E. Nawa</a> and <a href="http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/~yamagisi/index-e.html">N. Yamagishi</a></b>

<b>Summary:</b> Short-term study-abroad (STSA) programs provide a more
accessible alternative for students who would otherwise not consider
engaging in academic activities overseas. Though improvements in the
levels of intercultural sensitivity and general academic aspects
attained by STSA programs have been previously examined, much less is
known regarding the impact such programs have in the mood of
students. Here, we examined changes in mood state associated with
participation in an STSA program in a group of Japanese university
students. Mood states were assessed using the Profile of Mood States
(POMS), the Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS), and the Gratitude
Questionnaire (GQ-6). Results indicated that the POMS mean scores of
Vigor-Activity and SWLS peaked at the time immediately following
participation in the STSA program; moreover, the same scores were
found to be at comparable levels even one month after the end of the
program. These results indicate that participation in STSA programs
can positively influence the mood state of university students,
suggesting that the benefits associated with participation in such
programs extend beyond typically reported improvements in the academic
domain.Researchers have employed a variety of methodologies to induce
positive and negative mood states in study participants to investigate
the influence that mood has on psychological, physiological, and
cognitive processes both in health and illness. Here, we investigated
the effectiveness and the duration of mood effects following the mood
induction task (MIT), a protocol that combines mood-inducing
sentences, auditory stimuli, and autobiographical memory recall in a
cohort of healthy Japanese adult individuals. In Study 1, we
translated and augmented the mood-inducing sentences originally
proposed by Velten in 1968 and verified that people perceived the
translations as being largely congruent with the valence of the
original sentences. In Study 2, we developed a Japanese version of the
mood induction task (J-MIT) and examined its effectiveness using an
online implementation. Results based on data collected immediately
after induction showed that the J-MIT was able to modulate the mood in
the intended direction. However, mood effects were not observed during
the subsequent performance of a cognitive task, the Tower of London
task, suggesting that the effects did not persist long
enough. Overall, the current results show that mood induction
procedures such as the J-MIT can alter the mood of study participants
in the short term; however, at the same time, they highlight the need
to further examine how mood effects evolve and persist through time to
better understand how mood induction protocols can be used to study
affective processes more effectively.

[Download here](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0293871)

