---
title: "Distinct associations between gratitude, self-esteem, and optimism with subjective and psychological well-being among Japanese individuals"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-03-07-paper-1
excerpt: ''
venue: 'BMC Psychology'
---

<b>By <a href="https://eijinawa.github.io">N. E. Nawa</a> and <a href="http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/~yamagisi/index-e.html">N. Yamagishi</a></b>

<b>Summary:</b>

<u>Background</u>

Mounting evidence suggests that the effectiveness of positive
psychology interventions is influenced by a variety of factors,
including cultural context. Identifying intervention targets that can
effectively contribute to improving individual well-being under these
boundary conditions is a crucial step when developing viable
interventions. To this end, we examined how gratitude disposition,
self-esteem, and optimism relate to the subjective well-being (SWB)
and psychological well-being (PWB) of Japanese individuals.

<u>Methods</u>

Multivariate regression analysis was employed to quantify the unique
relationships between the three potential intervention targets and
both SWB and PWB, while accounting for the influence of other
variables. Participants (N = 71) also engaged in a 4-week experience
sampling study to explore how gratitude, self-esteem and optimism
shape the link between momentary affective states in everyday life and
evaluations of day satisfaction.

<u>Results</u>

Multivariate regression analysis revealed that self-esteem was
predominantly more strongly associated with SWB compared to gratitude
disposition, whereas gratitude disposition was more strongly
associated with the PWB dimensions, particularly personal growth,
positive relations with others and purpose in life. Experience
sampling data indicated that while both gratitude disposition and
self-esteem moderated the association between momentary positive
affect and day satisfaction evaluations, they did so in opposite ways;
greater gratitude disposition strengthened the association, while
greater self-esteem weakened it.

<u>Conclusions</u>

Overall, the current results suggest that while gratitude,
self-esteem, and optimism influence individual well-being as a whole,
they likely play distinct roles in facilitating SWB and PWB in the
studied cohort.

[Download here](https://bmcpsychology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s40359-024-01606-y)

